    The Department of Health Care Policy & Financing (HCPF) oversees and operates Health First Colorado (Colorado's Medicaid Program), Child Health Plan Plus (CHP+), and other state public health programs for qualified Coloradans. Our mission is to improve health care equity, access and outcomes for the people we serve while saving Coloradans money on health care and driving value for Colorado. 

    We are committed to increasing the diversity of our staff and providing culturally responsive programs and services. Therefore, we encourage responses from people of diverse backgrounds and abilities. 

    We are looking for a  Workforce Data and Compliance Analyst to join our Office of Community Living team!

    As part of the State of Colorado, HCPF offers a competitive benefits package:

        PERA retirement benefits including PERA Defined Benefit Plan, PERA Defined Contribution Plan, plus 401K and 457 plans

        Medical, Dental, and Vision insurance coverage

        Automatic Short-Term and Optional Long-Term Disability Coverage

        Life and AD&D Insurance

        Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs)

        Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) job protection and State of Colorado Paid Family Medical Leave (PFML)

        11 Paid Holidays Annually and Accrued Annual and Sick Leave

        Accrued Sick Leave for State of Colorado Temporary Employees

        Flexplace and Flextime work arrangements

        Variety of discounts on services and products available through the State of Colorado's Work-Life Employment Discount Program

        Free RTD EcoPass to all eligible State Employees

        Credit Union of Colorado Membership Eligibility

        Some positions may qualify for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. For more

    information, go to https://www.colorado.gov/pacific/dhr/student-loan-forgiveness-programs. https://dhr.colorado.gov/dhr-resources/student-loan-forgiveness-programs

    We are onboarding new employees using a hybrid approach. The Department supports flexible work arrangements. Depending on the business need and description of the position, we have options that range from fully remote, hybrid, to full-time in the office. Specific discussions about the schedule will be discussed during the offer stage. 


Description of Job

    What you'll be doing:

        Responsible for overseeing the data collection and analytics requirements within CRS 8-7.5-104 to ensure the Department fulfills its responsibilities outlined in Senate Bill 23-261, Concerning the Creation of the Direct Care Workforce Stabilization Board to Develop Recommendations Regarding Direct Care Workers, and, in Connection therewith, Making an Appropriation. 

        Engages stakeholders that include the DCWSB (Board), DCWs, and providers on the most appropriate frequency and method for collecting data and ensuring compliance, in addition to the reporting output format.

        Researches and recommends the best data collection methods and tool/platform to ensure the Department receives quality data from providers and to ensure data aggregation is accurate and reliable. 

        Presents recommended approach for data collection to Department leadership, Board, and stakeholders as necessary. Responds to questions regarding the options for the data collection tool/platform. 

        Develops and implements the new reporting tool/platform, tests for ease of use and outcomes, and external communications and instructions. 

        Obtains leadership approvals for the reporting tool/platform and makes modifications as necessary to improve or update data fields and/or ensure the right data is being collected.

        Responds to provider, Board, DCW, and stakeholder’s questions regarding data collection and submitting required data.

        Develops and maintains the tools, forms, tracking, and procedures for tracking wage data and for tracking provider compliance. Determines internal action steps for providers that do not report as required.

        Oversees submissions from approximately 900+ service providers to ensure accuracy of submissions, provide technical assistance, respond to questions, reject incomplete submissions and follow-up for corrected resubmissions.

        Using the data collected from providers and other data sources, this position aggregates and analyzes wage and working condition data in a meaningful way such as by service type, by location, starting wages, ending wages, average wages, median wages, rural vs urban, etc.  

        Analyzes data to provide useful information to the Department and the Board and support their decision-making efforts for DCW wages and working conditions.  

        Adjusts the format of data aggregation as needed to best represent the information to inform decision making. 

        Presents the data, reports, and compliance outcomes to internal leadership and the Board at least quarterly and as requested. May include presenting the data in tables, charts, graphs, etc. depending on the best representation of the information. 

        Provides policy recommendations to internal leadership based on the results of the data analysis and modifies recommendations as wages and working conditions change. 

        Identifies services provided by DCWs that have lower wages in comparison to other services impacted by base wage requirements. 



Minimum Qualifications, Substitutions, Conditions of Employment & Appeal Rights


    MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: 

    Education and Experience: 
    Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution in a field of study related to the work assignment such as business, public administration, public health, economics, data analytics, statistics, finance, mathematics, social sciences, etc.  
    AND
    Three years of professional experience in an occupational field doing the following:

        Developing or implementing tools for data collection  

        Collecting and analyzing data

        Manipulating data to create different reports, graphs, tables, and other visualizations

    Substitutions: 
    Additional appropriate experience will substitute for the degree requirement on a year-for-year basis.

    Additional appropriate education will substitute for the required experience on a year-for-year basis.

    Preferred Qualifications & Special Qualifications:

        Experience presenting to stakeholders

        Experience with in data collection tools

        Prior experience with Medicaid, Home and Community Based Services waivers, or other long term care programs

        Prior state experience related to the duties of this position

    Highly Desired Skills, Knowledge and Abilities:

        Strong communication skills, verbal and written

        Critical thinking and decision- making ability for complex problem solving

        Proficiency in Microsoft Excel and Google applications 


    DEFINITION OF PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Work that involves exercising discretion, analytical skill, judgment, personal accountability, and responsibility for creating, developing, integrating, applying, and sharing an organized body of knowledge that characteristically is uniquely acquired through an intense education or training regimen at a recognized college or university; equivalent to the curriculum requirements for a bachelor's or higher degree with major study in or pertinent to the specialized field; and continuously studied to explore, extend, and use additional discoveries, interpretations, and application and to improve data, materials, equipment, applications and methods. 

    CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT

        All positions at HCPF are security sensitive positions and require that the individuals undergo a criminal record background check as a condition of employment.

        Employees who have been disciplinary terminated, resigned in lieu of disciplinary termination, or negotiated their termination from the State of Colorado must disclose this information on the application.  


    APPEAL RIGHTS:

    If you receive notice that you have been eliminated from consideration for this position, you may file an appeal with the State Personnel Board or request a review by the State Personnel Director.

    An appeal or review must be submitted on the official appeal form, signed by you or your representative. This form must be delivered to the State Personnel Board by email (dpa_state.personnelboard@state.co.us), postmarked in US Mail or hand delivered (1525 Sherman Street, 4th Floor, Denver CO 80203), or faxed (303.866.5038) within ten (10) calendar days from your receipt of notice or acknowledgement of the department’s action.

    For more information about the appeals process, the official appeal form, and how to deliver it to the State Personnel Board; go to spb.colorado.gov; contact the State Personnel Board for assistance at (303) 866-3300; or refer to 4 Colorado Code of Regulations (CCR) 801-1, State Personnel Board Rules and Personnel Director's Administrative Procedures, Chapter 8, Resolution of Appeals and Disputes, at spb.colorado.gov under Rules.

Supplemental Information

    How to Apply (PLEASE READ CAREFULLY)

    Please note that ONLY your State of Colorado job application will be reviewed during the initial screening; if you submit a resume and cover letter, they will be reviewed in later stages of the selection process. Therefore, it is paramount that you clearly describe all your relevant experience on the application itself. Applications left blank or marked "SEE RESUME" will not be considered.

    Your application will be reviewed against the minimum qualifications for the position. If your application demonstrates that you meet the minimum qualifications, you will be invited to the comparative analysis process, which is described below.


    Comparative Analysis Process

    The comparative analysis process will consist primarily of a review of applications against the minimum and preferred qualifications of this position. Applications will be reviewed in comparison to all others in the applicant pool in order to identify a top group of candidates who may be invited for a final interview. Depending on the size of the applicant pool, additional selection processes may be utilized to identify a top group of candidates. Applicants will be notified of their status via email.

    Failure to submit properly completed documents by the closing date will result in your application being rejected.


    ADAAA Accommodations: The State of Colorado believes that equity, diversity, and inclusion drive our success, and we encourage candidates from all identities, backgrounds, and abilities to apply. The State of Colorado is an equal opportunity employer committed to building inclusive, innovative work environments with employees who reflect our communities and enthusiastically serve them. Therefore, in all aspects of the employment process, we provide employment opportunities to all qualified applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, medical condition related to pregnancy, creed, ancestry, national origin, marital status, genetic information, or military status (with preference given to military veterans), or any other protected status in accordance with applicable law.

    The Department of Health Care Policy & Financing is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, our agency will assist individuals who have a disability with any reasonable accommodation requests related to employment, including completing the application process, interviewing, completing any pre-employment testing, participating in the employee selection process, and/or to perform essential job functions where the requested accommodation does not impose an undue hardship. If you have a disability and require reasonable accommodation to ensure you have a positive experience applying or interviewing for this position, please direct your inquiries to our ADAAA Coordinator, Virginia Miller, at virginia.miller@state.co.us.

    The Department of Health Care Policy & Financing does not offer sponsored visas for employment purposes.
